if you go to the airport of course all
of us now are so acclimated to it it
seems normal but the idea that everybody
just so dutifully takes off their shoes
and takes off their belt it's a kind of
petty authoritarianism no one's being
imprisoned for it no one's being shot
but what it is is it's almost more
Insidious because of that because
exactly as you say it started
conditioning people that in the name of
safety we need to unquestioningly obey
Authority kind of submit to whatever
humiliations whatever orders were told
to do and to watch the american
conservative movement that was so
steadfast in their opposition to the
idea of federal government power in the
1990s immediately turn around and start
meekly taking off their shoes at
airports and doing everything that they
were told and going through these
machines in the name of safety I think
was was quite transformative and I do
think it started training Americans to
accept the kinds of infringements on
their autonomy in the name of safety
that even just a couple of years earlier
would have been unthinkable